# How did my project follow the CRISP-DM standard

My final project followed the CRISP-DM standard by the steps that were taken during the analysis. For reference, the six phases of CRISP-DM are Business/Research Understanding, Data Understanding, Data Preparation, Modeling Phase, Evaluation Phase, and Deployment Phase. For the Understanding Phase, an understanding of the question at hand is key. For the final project, we were tasked to find out which customer survives the Titanic disaster. From this understanding, I knew that I had to figure out which variables are most useful for this task, which ties into the second step. For Data Understanding, I made sure to first collect the appropriate data for the first part of the final, which was the train dataset. I proceeded to use exploratory data analysis (EDA)  to familiarize myself with the data, in an attempt to discover some initial insights. What I found useful for my EDA was to pair the variable ‘Survived’ with the other variables I wanted to use for my analysis by using the table function. This allowed me to see and compare those who survived to those who did not with each variable. I also used data visualization via barplots to visualize these insights, and the glm function to get a better statistical understanding of each variable. For the next phase, Data Preparation, I ensured that all missing data were replaced. For the variable ‘Embarked’, I used a random value to replace those that were missing, and for the variable ‘Age’, I replaced missing values with the average of the Age column. After doing so, I checked for outliers using histograms. For the modeling phase, I selected three classifier modeling techniques, which were k-nearest neighbor, decision trees, and a neural network. To calibrate the model settings for optimized results, I factored my categorical data, and ensured that the numerical data were as such. The evaluation phase consisted of testing my three classifier model techniques. At the conclusion of this phase, I determined that the CART decision tree was the best choice of model for this task. During the Deployment Phase, this is where I used the predict function to test my model for the objective of this task: to determine who will survive the Titanic. In conclusion, all steps that were taken during this project followed the CRISP-DM standard.
